DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# Development Setup

## Architecture Overview

The dashboard application connects to **client databases** for both:
1. **User Settings Storage** - Uses `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` and `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_PASSWORD` from environment
2. **SQL Query Execution** - Uses credentials from the user's login URL (iotDbUrl)

Both connections use the same host/port/database extracted from the user's login URL, but with different credentials for different purposes.

## Local Development (Recommended)

For local development, run the frontend separately using Vite dev server for hot reload:

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start backend services (Redis + Backend API)
npm run docker:up

# Terminal 2: Start frontend dev server
npm run dev

# Access:
# - Frontend: http://localhost:8080 (Vite dev server with hot reload)
# - Backend API: http://localhost:3001
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Fast hot reload during development
- ✅ Easy debugging with browser DevTools
- ✅ No need to rebuild frontend for every change

## Production / EC2 Deployment

For production deployment, use Docker Compose with the production profile:

```bash
# Build frontend first
npm run build

# Start all services including frontend (nginx)
npm run docker:up:prod

# Or manually:
docker compose --profile production up -d
```

**Access:**
- Frontend: http://localhost:80 (nginx serving static files)
- Backend API: http://localhost:3001

## Environment Variables

### Required Backend Variables

The following environment variables are **required** for the backend:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` | Username for connecting to client database for settings storage |
| `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_PASSWORD` | Password for the settings database user |
| `JWT_SECRET` | Secret key for JWT token signing |

### Local Development
- Create `backend/.env` (see `backend/.env.example`)
- Set `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` and `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_PASSWORD`
- Create `.env.local` (see `.env.local.example`) for frontend variables
- Set `VITE_DEFAULT_METABASE_DB_CONNECTION_URL` for prepopulated connection string

### Production / EC2
- Set environment variables in `.env` file (see `.env.example`)
- Build frontend with: `npm run build`
- Frontend environment variables are embedded at build time

## Docker Services

**Default (dev mode):**
- `redis` - Redis cache for query results
- `backend` - Node.js backend API

**Production profile:**
- All above services +
- `frontend` - Nginx serving static frontend files

**Analytics profile (optional):**
- `analytics` - Python analytics service

## Quick Commands

```bash
# Local development
npm run dev                    # Start Vite dev server
npm run docker:up              # Start backend services (Redis + Backend)

# Production
npm run build                  # Build frontend
npm run docker:up:prod         # Start all services including frontend

# Management
npm run docker:logs            # View logs
npm run docker:down            # Stop all services
```

## Database Tables

The following tables are expected in the client database (created by the client or via migrations):

- `users` - User accounts
- `user_roles` - User role assignments
- `global_variables` - Dashboard-wide variables
- `sections` - Report sections/folders
- `reports` - Dashboard reports with schemas

Migrations can be run using:
```bash
./scripts/run-migration.sh <database_url> <migration_file>
```

Commit message:

Refactors client settings DB connection
Migrates the client settings database connection to use a dedicated `userDbUrl` provided during login. This URL now contains the full connection string, including username and password, enabling client-driven access to user settings.

Removes `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_PASSWORD` environment variable and updates connection pool creation for settings to parse credentials directly from the `userDbUrl`. This enhances flexibility and security by decoupling settings database credentials from static backend environment configuration.

Introduces a separate input for the User Settings Database URL on the login page and updates JWTs and user metadata to carry both IoT and User Settings database URLs for subsequent authenticated requests.

Relates to BA-11624

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# Development Setup

## Architecture Overview

The dashboard application connects to **client databases** for both:
1. **User Settings Storage** - Uses `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` from environment with password from login URL
2. **SQL Query Execution** - Uses username from the user's login URL (iotDbUrl)

Both connections use the same host/port/database/password extracted from the user's login URL, but with different usernames (roles) for different purposes:
- SQL queries use the role from the login URL
- Settings storage uses `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` role (same password)

## Local Development (Recommended)

For local development, run the frontend separately using Vite dev server for hot reload:

```bash
# Terminal 1: Start backend services (Redis + Backend API)
npm run docker:up

# Terminal 2: Start frontend dev server
npm run dev

# Access:
# - Frontend: http://localhost:8080 (Vite dev server with hot reload)
# - Backend API: http://localhost:3001
```

**Benefits:**
- ✅ Fast hot reload during development
- ✅ Easy debugging with browser DevTools
- ✅ No need to rebuild frontend for every change

## Production / EC2 Deployment

For production deployment, use Docker Compose with the production profile:

```bash
# Build frontend first
npm run build

# Start all services including frontend (nginx)
npm run docker:up:prod

# Or manually:
docker compose --profile production up -d
```

**Access:**
- Frontend: http://localhost:80 (nginx serving static files)
- Backend API: http://localhost:3001

## Environment Variables

### Required Backend Variables

The following environment variables are **required** for the backend:

| Variable | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` | Username for connecting to client database for settings storage (password taken from login URL) |
| `JWT_SECRET` | Secret key for JWT token signing |

### Local Development
- Create `backend/.env` (see `backend/.env.example`)
- Set `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` (password is taken from the user's login URL)
- Create `.env.local` (see `.env.local.example`) for frontend variables

### Production / EC2
- Set environment variables in `.env` file (see `.env.example`)
- Build frontend with: `npm run build`
- Frontend environment variables are embedded at build time

## Docker Services

**Default (dev mode):**
- `redis` - Redis cache for query results
- `backend` - Node.js backend API

**Production profile:**
- All above services +
- `frontend` - Nginx serving static frontend files

**Analytics profile (optional):**
- `analytics` - Python analytics service

## Quick Commands

```bash
# Local development
npm run dev                    # Start Vite dev server
npm run docker:up              # Start backend services (Redis + Backend)

# Production
npm run build                  # Build frontend
npm run docker:up:prod         # Start all services including frontend

# Management
npm run docker:logs            # View logs
npm run docker:down            # Stop all services
```

## Database Tables

The following tables are expected in the client database (created by the client or via migrations):

- `users` - User accounts
- `user_roles` - User role assignments
- `global_variables` - Dashboard-wide variables
- `sections` - Report sections/folders
- `reports` - Dashboard reports with schemas

Migrations can be run using:
```bash
./scripts/run-migration.sh <database_url> <migration_file>
```
