SETUP_GUIDE.md, before:

# SQL Report Dashboard - Setup Guide

This guide covers both **Development Mode** and **Docker Mode** for running the SQL Report Dashboard.

## 🚀 Quick Start Options

### Option 1: Development Mode (Recommended for Development)
```bash
# Start everything with one command
npm run dev:setup

# Stop everything
npm run dev:stop
```

### Option 2: Docker Mode (Recommended for Production-like Environment)
```bash
# Start everything in Docker
npm run docker:up

# Stop everything
npm run docker:down
```

## 🔄 Switching Between Modes

You can easily switch between modes:

```bash
# Stop current mode
npm run dev:stop    # or npm run docker:down

# Start different mode
npm run dev:setup   # or npm run docker:up
```

## 📋 Detailed Comparison

| Feature | Development Mode | Docker Mode |
|---------|------------------|-------------|
| **Setup Time** | ~30 seconds | ~60 seconds |
| **Resource Usage** | Lower | Higher |
| **Hot Reload** | ✅ Full HMR | ✅ Backend HMR |
| **Database** | Local PostgreSQL | Containerized PostgreSQL |
| **Redis** | Docker container | Containerized Redis |
| **Environment** | Local files | Containerized |
| **Debugging** | Direct access | Container logs |
| **Production Similarity** | Lower | Higher |

## 🛠️ Development Mode Details

### What It Does
- Uses your local PostgreSQL installation
- Runs backend and frontend locally with hot reload
- Uses Redis in a lightweight Docker container
- Automatically sets up environment variables
- Provides detailed colored output

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+)
- npm (v8+)
- PostgreSQL (v14+) running locally
- Docker (for Redis only)

### Commands
```bash
npm run dev:setup    # Complete setup and start
npm run dev:stop     # Stop all services
npm run dev          # Frontend only
npm run dev:backend  # Backend only
npm run dev:full     # Both (manual)
```

### Access Points
- **Frontend:** http://localhost:8080
- **Backend:** http://localhost:3001
- **Health Check:** http://localhost:3001/health

## 🐳 Docker Mode Details

### What It Does
- Runs all services in Docker containers
- Uses containerized PostgreSQL and Redis
- Provides production-like environment
- Isolated from your local system

### Prerequisites
- Docker
- Docker Compose (v2+)

### Commands
```bash
npm run docker:up     # Start all services
npm run docker:down   # Stop all services
npm run docker:logs   # View logs
npm run docker:build  # Rebuild containers
```

### Access Points
- **Frontend:** http://localhost:8080 (if frontend container exists)
- **Backend:** http://localhost:3001
- **Health Check:** http://localhost:3001/health

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Development Mode Issues

1. **"DATABASE_URL environment variable is required"**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Run the setup script
   npm run dev:setup
   ```

2. **"Port already in use"**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Stop all services
   npm run dev:stop
   ```

3. **PostgreSQL not running**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Start PostgreSQL
   brew services start postgresql@14
   ```

### Docker Mode Issues

1. **"docker-compose: command not found"**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Use newer syntax
   docker compose up -d
   ```

2. **Port conflicts**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Stop development mode first
   npm run dev:stop
   docker compose down
   docker compose up -d
   ```

3. **Container startup issues**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Check logs
   docker compose logs backend
   ```

## 🎯 When to Use Each Mode

### Use Development Mode When:
- ✅ Actively developing features
- ✅ Need fast hot reload
- ✅ Want to debug with local tools
- ✅ Working on frontend changes
- ✅ Need quick iteration cycles

### Use Docker Mode When:
- ✅ Testing production-like environment
- ✅ Demonstrating to stakeholders
- ✅ Need isolated environment
- ✅ Working on deployment issues
- ✅ Testing with clean state

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Custom Environment Variables

**Development Mode:**
Edit `backend/.env` file:
```env
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5432/db
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_here
```

**Docker Mode:**
Create `.env` file in project root:
```env
POSTGRES_USER=your_user
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_password
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_here
```

### Running Individual Services

**Development Mode:**
```bash
# Backend only
cd backend && npm run dev

# Frontend only
npm run dev
```

**Docker Mode:**
```bash
# Specific service
docker compose up postgres redis -d
docker compose up backend -d
```

## 📊 Performance Comparison

| Metric | Development Mode | Docker Mode |
|--------|------------------|-------------|
| **Startup Time** | ~30s | ~60s |
| **Memory Usage** | ~200MB | ~500MB |
| **CPU Usage** | Lower | Higher |
| **Hot Reload Speed** | Instant | ~2s delay |

## 🚀 Production Deployment

For production deployment, use the Docker configuration as a base:

```bash
# Build production images
docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml build

# Deploy
docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

## 📝 Environment Variables Reference

This project uses **two separate `.env` files** for different purposes:

### 1. `backend/.env` - Backend Development Mode

**Used when:** Running backend in development mode (`npm run dev`, `npm run dev:backend`, `npm run dev:full`)

**Location:** `backend/.env` (copy from `backend/.env.example`)

**Example:**
```env
NODE_ENV=development
PORT=3001
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://reports_user@localhost:5432/reports_app_db
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379
JWT_SECRET=dev_jwt_secret_key_change_in_production
REPORT_SCHEMA_URL=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DanilNezhdanov/navixy-dashboard-schema/refs/heads/main/examples/hello-world-dashboard.json
```

### 2. `.env` (root) - Docker Compose Mode

**Used when:** Running services via Docker Compose (`npm run docker:up`, `docker-compose up`)

**Location:** `.env` in project root (copy from `.env.example`)

**Example:**
```env
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_here
POSTGRES_DB=reports_app_db
POSTGRES_USER=reports_user
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
REPORT_SCHEMA_URL=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DanilNezhdanov/navixy-dashboard-schema/refs/heads/main/examples/hello-world-dashboard.json
```

**Note:** Docker Compose also reads variables from `docker-compose.yml` which references these values.

### Setup

The `npm run dev:setup` command automatically creates `backend/.env` from `backend/.env.example` if it doesn't exist.

For Docker Compose, manually copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the values:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your values
```

See [backend/.env.example](./backend/.env.example) and [.env.example](./.env.example) for complete configuration options.

---

## 🎉 You're All Set!

Both modes are now fully automated and ready to use. Choose the mode that best fits your current needs:

- **Development Mode** for active development
- **Docker Mode** for production-like testing

Happy coding! 🚀

Commit message:

Migrates dashboard user settings to client database
Removes local database migration scripts and updates documentation, reflecting that the `dashboard_studio_meta_data` schema for user settings is now expected to be provisioned directly on the client's external database.

Rebrands the project, services, and repository references to "Navixy IoT Query Dashboard."

Adopts the Mozilla Public License 2.0 (MPL-2.0) across the project.

Enhances CORS configuration by allowing additional origins to be specified via an environment variable in both backend and analytics services.

Makes the default report schema URL optional.

Relates to BA-11624

SETUP_GUIDE.md, after:

# SQL Report Dashboard - Setup Guide

This guide covers both **Development Mode** and **Docker Mode** for running the SQL Report Dashboard.

## 🚀 Quick Start Options

### Option 1: Development Mode (Recommended for Development)
```bash
# Start everything with one command
npm run dev:setup

# Stop everything
npm run dev:stop
```

### Option 2: Docker Mode (Recommended for Production-like Environment)
```bash
# Start everything in Docker
npm run docker:up

# Stop everything
npm run docker:down
```

## 🔄 Switching Between Modes

You can easily switch between modes:

```bash
# Stop current mode
npm run dev:stop    # or npm run docker:down

# Start different mode
npm run dev:setup   # or npm run docker:up
```

## 📋 Detailed Comparison

| Feature | Development Mode | Docker Mode |
|---------|------------------|-------------|
| **Setup Time** | ~30 seconds | ~60 seconds |
| **Resource Usage** | Lower | Higher |
| **Hot Reload** | ✅ Full HMR | ✅ Backend HMR |
| **Database** | Local PostgreSQL | Containerized PostgreSQL |
| **Redis** | Docker container | Containerized Redis |
| **Environment** | Local files | Containerized |
| **Debugging** | Direct access | Container logs |
| **Production Similarity** | Lower | Higher |

## 🛠️ Development Mode Details

### What It Does
- Uses your local PostgreSQL installation
- Runs backend and frontend locally with hot reload
- Uses Redis in a lightweight Docker container
- Automatically sets up environment variables
- Provides detailed colored output

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v18+)
- npm (v8+)
- PostgreSQL (v14+) running locally
- Docker (for Redis only)

### Commands
```bash
npm run dev:setup    # Complete setup and start
npm run dev:stop     # Stop all services
npm run dev          # Frontend only
npm run dev:backend  # Backend only
npm run dev:full     # Both (manual)
```

### Access Points
- **Frontend:** http://localhost:8080
- **Backend:** http://localhost:3001
- **Health Check:** http://localhost:3001/health

## 🐳 Docker Mode Details

### What It Does
- Runs all services in Docker containers
- Uses containerized PostgreSQL and Redis
- Provides production-like environment
- Isolated from your local system

### Prerequisites
- Docker
- Docker Compose (v2+)

### Commands
```bash
npm run docker:up     # Start all services
npm run docker:down   # Stop all services
npm run docker:logs   # View logs
npm run docker:build  # Rebuild containers
```

### Access Points
- **Frontend:** http://localhost:8080 (if frontend container exists)
- **Backend:** http://localhost:3001
- **Health Check:** http://localhost:3001/health

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Development Mode Issues

1. **"DATABASE_URL environment variable is required"**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Run the setup script
   npm run dev:setup
   ```

2. **"Port already in use"**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Stop all services
   npm run dev:stop
   ```

3. **PostgreSQL not running**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Start PostgreSQL
   brew services start postgresql@14
   ```

### Docker Mode Issues

1. **"docker-compose: command not found"**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Use newer syntax
   docker compose up -d
   ```

2. **Port conflicts**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Stop development mode first
   npm run dev:stop
   docker compose down
   docker compose up -d
   ```

3. **Container startup issues**
   ```bash
   # Solution: Check logs
   docker compose logs backend
   ```

## 🎯 When to Use Each Mode

### Use Development Mode When:
- ✅ Actively developing features
- ✅ Need fast hot reload
- ✅ Want to debug with local tools
- ✅ Working on frontend changes
- ✅ Need quick iteration cycles

### Use Docker Mode When:
- ✅ Testing production-like environment
- ✅ Demonstrating to stakeholders
- ✅ Need isolated environment
- ✅ Working on deployment issues
- ✅ Testing with clean state

## 🔧 Advanced Usage

### Custom Environment Variables

**Development Mode:**
Edit `backend/.env` file:
```env
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@localhost:5432/db
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_here
```

**Docker Mode:**
Create `.env` file in project root:
```env
POSTGRES_USER=your_user
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=your_password
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_here
```

### Running Individual Services

**Development Mode:**
```bash
# Backend only
cd backend && npm run dev

# Frontend only
npm run dev
```

**Docker Mode:**
```bash
# Specific service
docker compose up postgres redis -d
docker compose up backend -d
```

## 📊 Performance Comparison

| Metric | Development Mode | Docker Mode |
|--------|------------------|-------------|
| **Startup Time** | ~30s | ~60s |
| **Memory Usage** | ~200MB | ~500MB |
| **CPU Usage** | Lower | Higher |
| **Hot Reload Speed** | Instant | ~2s delay |

## 🚀 Production Deployment

For production deployment, use the Docker configuration as a base:

```bash
# Build production images
docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml build

# Deploy
docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

## 📝 Environment Variables Reference

This project uses **two separate `.env` files** for different purposes:

### 1. `backend/.env` - Backend Development Mode

**Used when:** Running backend in development mode (`npm run dev`, `npm run dev:backend`, `npm run dev:full`)

**Location:** `backend/.env` (copy from `backend/.env.example`)

**Example:**
```env
NODE_ENV=development
PORT=3001
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://reports_user@localhost:5432/reports_app_db
REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379
JWT_SECRET=dev_jwt_secret_key_change_in_production
# REPORT_SCHEMA_URL= # Optional: URL for default report schema
```

### 2. `.env` (root) - Docker Compose Mode

**Used when:** Running services via Docker Compose (`npm run docker:up`, `docker-compose up`)

**Location:** `.env` in project root (copy from `.env.example`)

**Example:**
```env
JWT_SECRET=your_secret_here
POSTGRES_DB=reports_app_db
POSTGRES_USER=reports_user
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres
# REPORT_SCHEMA_URL= # Optional: URL for default report schema
```

**Note:** Docker Compose also reads variables from `docker-compose.yml` which references these values.

### Setup

The `npm run dev:setup` command automatically creates `backend/.env` from `backend/.env.example` if it doesn't exist.

For Docker Compose, manually copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the values:

```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your values
```

See [backend/.env.example](./backend/.env.example) and [.env.example](./.env.example) for complete configuration options.

---

## 🎉 You're All Set!

Both modes are now fully automated and ready to use. Choose the mode that best fits your current needs:

- **Development Mode** for active development
- **Docker Mode** for production-like testing

Happy coding! 🚀
