docs/DOCKER_SETUP.md, before:

# Docker Setup Guide

This guide ensures a smooth Docker setup every time you start the application.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Start all services (automatically sets up .env if needed)
npm run docker:start

# Or use the script directly
./scripts/docker-start.sh up -d
```

## First Time Setup

The `docker-start.sh` script automatically:
1. ✅ Checks if `.env` file exists
2. ✅ Creates `.env` from `.env.example` if missing
3. ✅ Generates a secure `JWT_SECRET` if not set
4. ✅ Validates Docker is running
5. ✅ Starts all services

## Manual Setup (if needed)

If you prefer to set up manually:

1. **Copy the example environment file:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Generate a JWT secret:**
   ```bash
   openssl rand -hex 32
   ```

3. **Add the secret to `.env`:**
   ```bash
   JWT_SECRET=your_generated_secret_here
   ```

4. **Start Docker Compose:**
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

## Environment Variables

### Required
- `JWT_SECRET` - Secret key for JWT token signing (auto-generated if missing)

### Optional (with defaults)
- `POSTGRES_DB` - Database name (default: `reports_app_db`)
- `POSTGRES_USER` - Database user (default: `reports_user`)
- `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` - Database password (default: `postgres`)
- `REPORT_SCHEMA_URL` - URL to report schema repository

## Common Commands

```bash
# Start services
npm run docker:start

# Stop services
npm run docker:stop

# View logs
npm run docker:logs

# Restart services
npm run docker:restart

# Stop and remove volumes (fresh start)
docker compose down -v
```

## Troubleshooting

### JWT_SECRET Warning
If you see a warning about JWT_SECRET not being set:
```bash
# The script will auto-generate it, or manually:
openssl rand -hex 32 > .env
echo "JWT_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32)" >> .env
```

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Stop existing containers
docker compose down

# Or check what's using the port
lsof -i :3001  # Backend
lsof -i :5432  # PostgreSQL
lsof -i :6379  # Redis
```

### Database Issues
```bash
# Reset database (WARNING: deletes all data)
docker compose down -v
docker compose up -d
```

## Services

- **Backend API**: http://localhost:3001
- **PostgreSQL**: localhost:5432
- **Redis**: localhost:6379
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:3001/health

## Default Credentials

**Plugin Mode (Passwordless - Recommended):**
- **Email**: admin@example.com (prepopulated on login screen)
- **Role**: Select from dropdown (admin, editor, viewer)
- **Database URLs**: Configure Metabase and IoT database URLs on login screen

**Legacy Mode (Password-based):**
- **Email**: admin@example.com
- **Password**: admin123 (if user was created with password)

**Note:** The app now operates primarily in plugin mode where authentication is token-based. Database configuration is handled on the login screen, not in Settings.

## Notes

- The `.env` file is gitignored for security
- Never commit `.env` to version control
- The script automatically generates a secure JWT_SECRET if missing
- Database is initialized automatically on first start via `init-db.sql`

Commit message:

Migrates user settings to client DB
Updates the application to store user settings (roles, global variables, reports, sections) in the client's database instead of the local application database.

This change involves:
- Modifying the authentication flow to retrieve the client database URL from the login and use it to configure database connections.
- Injecting database connection pools into request contexts.
- Updating database queries to target the client's database for user settings operations.
- Removing app settings database.

These changes enable a multi-tenant architecture where each client has its own isolated settings and data.

Relates to BA-11624

docs/DOCKER_SETUP.md, after:

# Docker Setup Guide

This guide ensures a smooth Docker setup every time you start the application.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Start all services (automatically sets up .env if needed)
npm run docker:start

# Or use the script directly
./scripts/docker-start.sh up -d
```

## First Time Setup

The `docker-start.sh` script automatically:
1. ✅ Checks if `.env` file exists
2. ✅ Creates `.env` from `.env.example` if missing
3. ✅ Generates a secure `JWT_SECRET` if not set
4. ✅ Validates Docker is running
5. ✅ Starts all services

## Manual Setup (if needed)

If you prefer to set up manually:

1. **Copy the example environment file:**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

2. **Generate a JWT secret:**
   ```bash
   openssl rand -hex 32
   ```

3. **Add the secret to `.env`:**
   ```bash
   JWT_SECRET=your_generated_secret_here
   ```

4. **Start Docker Compose:**
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

## Environment Variables

### Required
- `JWT_SECRET` - Secret key for JWT token signing (auto-generated if missing)
- `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_USER` - Username for client settings database connection
- `CLIENT_SETTINGS_DB_PASSWORD` - Password for client settings database connection

### Optional
- `REPORT_SCHEMA_URL` - URL to report schema repository

## Common Commands

```bash
# Start services
npm run docker:start

# Stop services
npm run docker:stop

# View logs
npm run docker:logs

# Restart services
npm run docker:restart

# Stop and remove volumes (fresh start)
docker compose down -v
```

## Troubleshooting

### JWT_SECRET Warning
If you see a warning about JWT_SECRET not being set:
```bash
# The script will auto-generate it, or manually:
openssl rand -hex 32 > .env
echo "JWT_SECRET=$(openssl rand -hex 32)" >> .env
```

### Port Already in Use
```bash
# Stop existing containers
docker compose down

# Or check what's using the port
lsof -i :3001  # Backend
lsof -i :6379  # Redis
lsof -i :8080  # Frontend
```

## Services

- **Frontend**: http://localhost:8080
- **Backend API**: http://localhost:3001
- **Redis**: localhost:6379
- **Health Check**: http://localhost:3001/health

## Login

- **Email**: Enter your email address
- **Role**: Select from dropdown (admin, editor, viewer)
- **Database URL**: Enter your PostgreSQL connection URL

**Note:** The app operates in passwordless mode where authentication is token-based. Database connection is configured on the login screen.

## Notes

- The `.env` file is gitignored for security
- Never commit `.env` to version control
- The script automatically generates a secure JWT_SECRET if missing
- User settings are stored in the client's database (schema: `dashboard_studio_meta_data`)
